# CS-330-Portfolio

# How do I approach designing software?
Usually, I don't put a lot of forward thinking into my design. I tend to just jump straight into things and work from there.  For this project I had a clear destination and I planned out how I wanted to get there. When designing the program, I made sure that I had a list of clear goals I needed to meet and assigned each goal a priority based on how important it was to the final project. This allowed me to focus my efforts on the items that were the most important throughout the lifecycle of the project.  In the future I am going to spend more time planning and designing the final software before starting on a project.  Clearly defining a clear goal and endpoint significantly helped me accomplish this project.

# How do I approach developing programs?
I have always struggled breaking down software into smaller problems.  Typically, when I am designing software, I will begin to implement something and try to implement all the functionality that I am going to need later down the line at once.  With this project I focused a lot on getting the core functionality first and modularizing it and adding additional functionality later.  This helped me significantly as sometimes I would realize that I didn't need features I thought I did, and I was able to easily make changes to a small piece of the program before modularizing it.  For this project I focused on designing my code to be modular.  I started by getting the core functionality working in main and then I broke it up into separate classes once the functionality was there.  In the future I am going to do more development this way, focusing on the core of the program and the modularizing and building upon that core.

# How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
I think the most generally applicable thing that is learned through computer graphics is breaking down a problem into smaller and smaller pieces.  In computer graphics everything is built upon a triangle, no matter how complicated the object is.  This can be applied across all areas of programming as well, the smaller each individual class or function is the better and more modular it can be.  One area that I will use this experience breaking items down into smaller problems is 3D design.  I do a lot of 3D printing and design work. When creating an object, you need to break it down into its individual components and sometimes those components need to be broken down into even smaller parts as well.  This experience breaking a large task or item down into smaller pieces will be helpful in the future and can be applied to almost everything I do.
